Activity Selection Problem
Kruskal’s Minimum Spanning Tree Algorithm
Huffman Coding
Efficient Huffman Coding for Sorted Input
Prim’s Minimum Spanning Tree Algorithm
Prim’s MST for Adjacency List Representation
Dijkstra’s Shortest Path Algorithm
Dijkstra’s Algorithm for Adjacency List Representation
Job Sequencing Problem
Greedy Algorithm to find Minimum number of Coins
K Centers Problem
Minimum Number of Platforms Required for a Railway/Bus Station
Connect n ropes with minimum cost
Graph coloring
Fractional Knapsack Problem
Minimize Cash Flow among a given set of friends who have borrowed money from each other
Find minimum time to finish all jobs with given constraints
Find maximum sum possible equal to sum of three stacks
Dail’s Algorithm
Boruvka’s algorithm




Activity Selection Problem
Given a set of activities, along with the starting and finishing time of each activity, find the maximum number of activities performed by a single person assuming that a person can only work on a single activity at a time.
Graph Coloring Problem
Graph coloring (also called vertex coloring) is a way of coloring a graph’s vertices such that no two adjacent vertices share the same color. This post will discuss a greedy algorithm for graph coloring and minimize the total number of colors used.
Job Sequencing Problem with Deadlines
Given a set of tasks with deadlines and total profit earned on completing a task, find maximum profit earned by executing the tasks within the specified deadlines. Assume that a task takes one unit of time to execute, and it can’t execute beyond its deadline. Also, only a single task will be executed at a time.
Find minimum platforms needed to avoid delay in the train arrival
Given a schedule containing the arrival and departure time of trains in a station, find the minimum number of platforms needed to avoid delay in any train’s arrival.
Huffman Coding Compression Algorithm
Huffman coding (also known as Huffman Encoding) is an algorithm for doing data compression, and it forms the basic idea behind file compression. This post talks about the fixed-length and variable-length encoding, uniquely decodable codes, prefix rules, and Huffman Tree construction.
Single-Source Shortest Paths — Dijkstra’s Algorithm
Given a source vertex `s` from a set of vertices `V` in a weighted graph where all its edge weights `w(u, v)` are non-negative, find the shortest path weights `d(s, v)` from source `s` for all vertices `v` present in the graph.
Kruskal’s Algorithm for finding Minimum Spanning Tree
Given an undirected, connected and weighted graph, construct a minimum spanning tree out of it using Kruskal’s Algorithm.
Shortest Superstring Problem
Given a list of strings where no string is a substring of another, find the shortest string that contains each string in the list as a substring.
Thanks for reading.
